Big American trucks on the moon digging
stuff up, hauling it to rockets, and
sending it back to Earth. All in the
dream of making the average Earth person
affluent in a way few can imagine today.
Thanks to an endless supply of critical
minerals and also the key ingredient for
limitless energy from fusion. This week
we're talking about something that
doesn't exist yet, but that our guest
insists will exist someday. The lunar
economy. Justin Cyrus is the founder and
CEO of Lunar Outpost, a company that
makes space trucks. It's one of three
companies that have been selected by
NASA to build a lunar terrain vehicle or
LTV for its Aremis missions. Ultimately,
NASA expects that it will select one
company for the demonstration.
Cyrus says he wants his company to be
the mobility provider for the lunar
economy. In other words, he wants to
build big American trucks for the moon.
Let's roll the tape.
>> Can you name the truck with four-wheel
drive? Smells like a steak and seats 35.
Can you narrow?
Can you marrow?
>> Oops, wrong clip.
>> The value that the moon can bring as the
naturally largest orbiting satellite of
Earth to the Earth economy right now is
pretty massive. Even if you start
discounting the resources and the future
of the resources in space. So right now,
America is going back to the moon. The
next time someone asks why the USA went
to the moon just long enough to plant a
flag and leave some footprints, you tell
them America is going back this time for
good.
>> The moon is Earth's naturally largest
orbiting satellite. If you think of it
just as a giant satellite in the sky,
think about the Earth observation
equipment you can put on there. Think
about the weaponry that hopefully never
gets put on the lunar surface, but it is
the ultimate high ground in near Earth
space. There is no better strategic or
military positioning.
>> From the Wall Street Journal, I'm Tim
Higgins. And I'm Christopher Mims. This
is Bold Names, where you'll hear from
the leaders of the bold name companies
featured in the pages of the Wall Street
Journal. Today we ask, why are the US
and our biggest rivals all in a race to
build permanent bases on the moon? And
how will we do it?
Welcome, Justin. Looking forward to
talking about your moon truck and your
moon robots and your first mission to
the moon earlier this year. But let's
first zoom out or maybe zoom in to
Earth. To paraphrase JFK in 1962,
why the moon again? I say that because
the US of course was the first to set
foot on the moon in 1969 with the Apollo
mission and hasn't set foot again since
1972.
I think a lot of people it's sort of
been there, done that. Really just a big
gray rock, a harsh place with not a lot
to offer. So, what is there to gain
going back?
>> Yeah, thanks for having me, Tim. Uh,
really excited to be here. There's a lot
uh there's a lot going on on the lunar
surface. There's a lot going on in space
that's going to contribute to what we
are doing here on Earth and how we
operate as humanity. So of course uh the
science, the exploration, that kind of
innate uh quality of being a human
being, we want to push the boundaries to
go where we've never been before. And
that's all part of it. Again, you know,
that hasn't gone away. But in terms of
what we can do economically, that is a
very important question that I don't
think the broader public is aware of
quite yet. When you start looking at the
lunar surface, you have many of those
resources readily available and
accessible that have been deposited by
asteroids over the course of billions of
years. Uh you have your platinum group
metals, you have many other resources
that have been implanted on different
locations in the moon because of that
asteroid bombardment. In addition, you
have solar wind implanted volatiles. So
you have these really rare uh isotopes
that we don't get here on earth because
we have a magneettosphere and we are
protected by our atmosphere. So you have
these uh think solar winds like uh
volatiles, hydrogen, your heliums.
>> And let me stop you there. I
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I'm obviously a huge fan of going to the
moon for helium 3. I mean because we can
use that for clean fusion
>> and Mims is always talking about helium
3 here off behind the scenes of bold
names. So we'll get to that. Yeah, we we
can use it for cooling quantum
computers. I'm serious. The future's
helium 3 from the moon. But I got to ask
you, um, setting these resources aside
because it is going to take a long time
to build up to the point where we can
economically extract those from the moon
as opposed to the deep ocean where we
can get rare earth elements or existing
gas wells where we can extract helium 3.
um in the near term it is government
contracts right and and and NASA has
this Artemis program to go back to the
moon could you talk about that what are
the near-term
government efforts that are going to
bridge the construction of uh building
this lunar economy getting us from where
we are zero to the point where it's like
this is self- sustaining economically.
Yeah, and fair enough, Mims. It is going
to take a little bit of time to set up
the infrastructure to access these
resources at scale. Uh, one thing I like
to uh point out is it's actually easier
to go to the moon than it is to mine the
deep ocean. If you start thinking about
the bureaucratic and environmental
challenges that basically drag mining
the deep ocean is going to present and
the damage that can be done with that
type of resource extraction, it's a lot
easier to go to a lifeless body such as
the moon or asteroids and actually
extract resources from there. But to
your point, we don't have the
infrastructure right now to actually go
and extract the resources from the lunar
surface. So it is a lot of government
contracts um and it is complimentary
customers that are either doing
technological demonstrations uh science
and exploration missions or using it as
uh branding and marketing campaigns. So
to talk a little bit about our first
missions and then I'll I'll get into uh
what we're doing with the Artemis
campaign and what we're doing with NASA
more broadly. Our first mission just
went to the moon a couple months ago. So
we actually landed at the lunar south
pole. Now, it wasn't a perfect landing
from our landing provider. It was an off
nominal landing.
>> That was the intuitive machines landing.
>> The intuitive machines landing. Exactly.
I
>> And for those who don't know, it landed.
It had all these great payloads on on
board, including yours
>> and it tipped over. And this was I think
the second time it happened. They have a
real tipover problem. And there's nobody
there to just like push it back.
>> Exactly. Like if something happens, you
are on your own. you have to figure out
how to uh operate in that extreme
environment all by yourself. I am
confident they'll nail the next one uh
learn from the first two missions. Uh
but with that being said, we were
trapped under the lander so we couldn't
deploy our rover. Uh but as a part of
that mission to talk on the
commercialization because this was a
fully commercial rover, we had uh
payloads from MIT. We had a resource
camera that was actually going to help
us map the lunar south pole. We had a
tiny little Astraan, so like a 20 g
robot that was going to R2-D2 its way
around our rover and basically give us
feedback and analytics on how our rover
was performing. We had brand partners
back here on Earth.
>> Were there any brand stickers on your
rover?
>> No brand stickers on our rover. Um, but
we did have uh a lot of payloads on
board. So, one of my favorites, Mims, is
we have our own Lego set. So, we are the
first space company in history to have a
Lego set. The inner 5-year-old in me is
like extraordinarily ecstatic about
this. But that Lego set, it's a Lego
Technic set, has a miniature of our
rover that actually flew to the lunar
surface. So, of course, that is uh
commercialization at a smaller scale,
but in terms of the awareness and
getting people familiar with what's
going on as part of the Aremis programs,
that is massively invaluable.
>> Yes. And but to but to get to the bigger
picture though, ultimately we're
building a base on the moon. Like we're
going back to the moon, human
habitation, permanent human habitation,
not just, you know, uh what do they call
it? Boots and flags or whatever. You
show up and you go
>> flags and footprints. Exactly.
>> Flags and footprints. So we are going to
have a base on the moon. This is NASA's
stated goal. And if we don't do it, then
the um like upside down version of the
Artemis coalition, which is like Russia,
China, Venezuela, and a bunch of other
funloving countries, they're going to do
it, too, because they've said they're on
their way to doing it as well.
>> And that's it, Mims. And the reason
that's important is think about think
about it this way. If nothing else, even
if you don't believe anything with the
resources on the moon, even if you don't
think that's going to happen for two or
three decades, the moon is Earth's
naturally largest orbiting satellite. If
you think of it just as a giant
satellite in the sky, think about the
Earth observation equipment you can put
on there. Think about the weaponry that
hopefully never gets put on the lunar
surface, but it is the ultimate high
ground in near Earth space. there is no
better strategic or military positioning
if you look at it in the worst case
scenario. So that's that's what we don't
want to happen. Now if you look at it
from the other side, the value that the
moon can bring as the naturally largest
orbiting satellite of Earth to the Earth
economy right now is pretty massive.
Even if you start discounting the
resources and the future of the
resources in space. So right now America
is going back to the moon. there is
nation state competition and it is
critical for our national defense uh for
us to have a continuous presence in
system or space and to keep pushing it's
it's important for us uh for that
long-term goal of resources to get our
footprint there now
>> we reached out to Intuitive Machines and
NASA they did not respond to a request
for comment coming up after the break
the mantra failure is not an option
doesn't apply to the age of private
space missions. That's because every
mission is so much cheaper than a
typical NASA one that companies can
afford to fail. Though that doesn't mean
it's not tough to accept. You know, if
you guys see the live stream, uh it it's
just kind of like a shock moment when I
think the Intuitive Machines folks saw
the lander go on its side. You know, for
us it was it was a bit of a heart drop
cuz you spend a couple years on this
first mission and it's it was it was a
bit heartbreaking, but at the same time
it was it was exciting because we made a
rover that got all the way to the moon.
>> Stay with us.
[Music]
Okay, so we know the the the universal
picture here. Uh let's talk about where
your company fits into this economy. Who
are you guys and what sort of
opportunities are you seeing right now?
>> Yeah. Uh our company Lunar Outpost uh we
are the leader in mobility uh and
robotics for extreme environments. So we
focus in space. We have seven missions
going to space. Uh five of them lunar
surface. Uh two of them in cis lunar
space. Uh a mix of customers from NASA,
the department of defense, European
Space Agency, Australian Space Agency,
Luxembourg Space Agency, and many
others. Now, where we're at at the
moment, we're about 150 people. Uh our
headquarters is in Golden, Colorado,
right outside Denver.
>> Close to Kors, I hope.
>> Close to Kors. Yep.
>> You're fueled by Kors beer. I hope you
don't need rocket fuel.
>> We we do not work with them yet. So I I
won't say the tagline of fueled by Kors
beer, but we'd love to work with them.
Uh I'm pretty sure NASA would say no
drinking and driving on the moon,
though. So it's uh
>> But how do you get to the moon? I mean,
you're not working on rockets. I mean,
who's who's getting you up there?
>> So I think a big shift in the space
industry is you don't have to work on
rockets anymore to be relevant. Uh it
it's very similar to the internet in the
'9s when you had the network and the
infrastructure in place. Uh thousands of
companies sprung up around that baseline
transportation or baseline communication
infrastructure the same
>> the fiber optic companies the Cisco of
the world
>> exactly n exactly
>> and now we have those right SpaceX and
Blue Origin and the rest
>> 100%. And there's a dozen launch
companies that are pretty good right
SpaceX obviously is dominant. Blue
Origin's coming up. They're figuring
things out. Uh you have Firefly that's
launching and then you have Rocket Lab.
So you have a lot of good companies out
there that are working on that
infrastructure layer. So now us as a
company, we have to ask what's next? How
do we make this a viable long-term
growing uh sustainable uh sustainable
economy? And that's where our company
comes into play. For anything you want
to do in space, you have to have robotic
systems. For anything you want to do in
space, you have to have advanced
spacecraft. Uh realistically, putting
humans up in space is a very uh
expensive and arduous process right now.
We're hoping to make that easier over
time. But that means all of the power,
all of the communications, the launch
and landing pads, the habitats, all of
that is going to be built and maintained
by robotic systems. And that's what we
do at Lunar Outpost. So that's what
we're doing now. And when you look at
our first seven missions that are going,
including the one a couple months ago,
these are scouting missions, these are
exploration missions, and then they
start transforming into infrastructure
missions. So, we are setting up uh on
our first mission, we actually flew
Noia, uh the 4G LTE, their 3GPP
technology.
>> Yeah, they were going to make the first
cell phone call on the moon, but once
again, this rover tipped over and they
couldn't do it.
>> The lander tipped over.
>> That's right. Not the rover. Your rover.
Your rover was fine. It was trapped
inside though.
>> Maybe paint us a picture a little bit.
So the lander gets there and it kind of
falls over. So what?
>> Yeah. So our rover is like in a garage.
Um so it's a thermal garage. Keeps us
nice and toasty along the way. And it is
kind of ready to be deployed. So we did
full checkouts in this space. Uh and two
of the machines did a great job of
getting our uh packets back if you will.
uh we got to test our advanced compute,
our radiation hardening, a lot of our
important subsystems, and so we know
everything's ready to go. And so we're
like
>> stuck in that garage essentially, right?
>> Yeah. So when we were cycling uh around
lunar orbit, uh we're getting excited,
you know, everyone's everyone's getting
ready to go. Um we see the thermal
cycles as we get closer and closer to
the moon. Uh, and then, you know, if you
guys see the live stream, uh, it it's
just kind of like a shock moment when I
think the Intuitive Machines folks saw
the lander go on its side. You know, for
us it was it was a bit of a heart drop
because you spend a couple years on this
first mission and it's it was it was a
bit heartbreaking, but at the same time
it was it was exciting because we made a
rover that got all the way to the moon,
survived an off nominal landing and got
to test all these critical components.
So, we got stuck um in our garage. The
lander because it's landed on its side
is actually on top of our garage. So we
were like a little kickstand more or
less for the lander that allowed them to
communicate back to Earth still. So we
served our purpose, you know, we we
helped them get packets back to Earth.
Uh but unfortunately because the lander
was on top of us, our garage couldn't
deploy and we couldn't actually get out
of the uh get out of the garage.
>> Now I got to ask about this failure in
the context of NASA's new strategy
because your background for those who
don't know, you were at Loheed Martin,
right?
You're you you know you have family
members working on this company with you
like your dad was a vice president Lheed
Martin you've talked about growing up
close to a space center when you were a
kid and NASA has shifted in a way that
makes your company possible right
they're contracting um private companies
of course the challenge then is that uh
unlike when it's all under one big roof
everybody gets to move fast but maybe
those learnings don't get carried over
mission to mission it does feel like on
this particular out of the last I think
four landings from the US on the moon,
three of them failed. One was a huge
success, it does feel like, well, what
do you expect? Like this is a bunch of
startups. No shade on you again. But I
mean, would this have been better if
NASA had been responsible for this and a
bunch of engineers who knew what they
were doing, who'd been on five previous
missions could land this thing? You
know, I I'll push back a little bit and
say you can land tip 10 clips landers uh
for the price of one NASA lander. So,
even if you get one of them down, which
if you saw Fireflies landing uh a month
or two ago, Austin, Texas company,
beautiful, absolutely beautiful. We got
great images, we got great video down,
that one landing would have cost at
least 10 times the amount if NASA had
run this by themselves instead of
partnering commercial industry. So in
just in terms of the investment like the
capital deployed versus scientific
return, the eclipse program has already
given a return on investment higher than
uh historically run NASA mission. Now if
you look at the future and if you look
at the groundwork that's being laid now
by startups and commercial companies
like ours, it it's going to have a few
failures and and that's um inevitable.
But at the same time um if you are able
to continue uh making progress, if you
learn from your mistakes, if you iterate
on it and keep the capital flowing,
right, if you have real revenue as a
space company uh moving forward and keep
that growth profile, we have seen a lot
of companies be extremely successful.
So, of course, uh you have the new age
of companies. I think Voyager just uh
you know, went public via spa a couple
weeks ago, uh that are doing well on the
open markets. Um but then hearkening
back to the most successful yet, which
is still in the private uh private
markets, SpaceX, those types of failures
are okay as long as you learn from them.
Now, you can't repeat the same mistake
two, three, four times and expect NASA
to keep funding you or the DoD to keep
funding you. uh there there's a lot of
competition out there. There's a very
high bar and expectations because of all
the amazing things we've accomplished in
space so far. So there is pressure on
these commercial companies to succeed.
Not only from a market uh standpoint if
you're trading publicly, from an
investor standpoint if you're trading
privately uh but also from our largest
customers.
>> One of the big contracts you're working
on uh is for NASA. It's a space truck
and I'd love to hear more about that.
Because when I think of a lunar rover, I
think of one from the 1970s, like a
lowprofile golf cart with really big
wheels. Uh, what does yours look like
and what's it going to be doing on the
moon?
>> And how much was the Cybertruck an
inspiration?
>> I like the Cybert truck. I know it's
it's very polarizing. Some people hate
it, some people like it. Uh the profile
reminds me of the F-17A from Lockheed
back in the day when like the computers
just couldn't make the well- modeled
stealth technology, so they did these
big flat angles. Um so that that
probably biased me a little bit, but uh
the LTV, the lunar terrain vehicle, uh
this is a pretty critical program from
NASA. Uh our Eagle lunar terrain vehicle
is going to serve as the backbone of the
Eagle.
>> The Eagle. Yeah, we we had
>> it's better than like it's better than
uh the pony or the Mustang. Maybe the
Eagle.
>> It's It's pretty American. It's And I
got a golden eagle here on my vest. It's
uh I I don't know that that call out
from Apollo, the Eagle has landed. Still
is still is the golden age of American
space flight so far.
>> That's the inspiration. So for for
gearheads, just lay it on us like what
are the specs on this thing? 0 to 60.
How much can it tow?
>> Cup. How many cup holders? How many cup
holders? No cup holders, but this is a
heavy duty truck. Uh, this can tow
thousands of kilograms. This can carry
two fully uh pressurized suited
astronauts. Um, over 800 kg of payload
in the bed. It can tow thousands of kg.
Now, it has a fully autonomous and
robotic arm on the back. Uh, so when
astronauts aren't there, it can be used
to build and maintain the infrastructure
of space. So, as I was talking about a
little bit earlier, the power
communications, uh, the habitats, all of
that is going to be set up robotically
and autonomously with this heavyduty
space truck. So, Eagle's not only meant
as the new age of transportation for
astronauts, uh, it's not only meant to
enhance the science and exploration
we're getting from the Aremis campaign.
This is the vehicle that makes a
sustainable presence in space possible.
So these the Eagle LTV is going to set
up the first outpost on the moon and the
Eagle LTV a variation of it is
eventually going to help set up cities
on Mars.
>> How long is this thing going to last?
Cuz because of course that's a big issue
with equipment on the moon,
>> which is hard.
>> Whenever I hear how harsh the
environment of the moon is, I think to
myself,
>> this is hell. No one should ever go
there.
>> No one should ever try to build there.
You're better off trying to build at the
bottom of the Mariana's Trench because
you have you have a dust that sticks to
everything that is ultra sharp that will
shred anything that will destroy any
gearbox
and it's ubiquitous and you can't escape
it or brush it off. And oh by the way,
the temperature range is like what minus
200 C to plus 200C day to night
something like that.
>> You're partnered with GM, right? Why
don't you take a Hummer up there? Yeah,
>> we're partnered with General Motors,
Goodyear, Lidos, and NBA Space. Um,
General Motors and Goodyear actually
helped with that original Apollo moon
bugging. Not many people know that, but
they have spaceflight heritage with that
Apollo LRV, but as you were saying,
Memphis, this is a brutal environment.
Like, it's an absolutely brutal
environment for humans or robotic
systems. This contract wouldn't have
been possible a decade ago just in terms
of the advancements we've made in
robotics, artificial intelligence,
material science. So there are very high
standards from NASA on this. They call
it like class A mission. If astronauts
are going to drive around this in this
vehicle, it has to be absolutely
bulletproof. So the validation and
verification campaign, the testing that
we're doing is extraordinarily
extensive.
>> Okay. You've also mentioned using GM
battery technology. So, this thing's
going to be like on the same Ultium
platform that's in the electric Hummer.
>> We leverage a lot of the heritage from
the Ultium platform. Um, we do have
different cells and so I'll leave it to
GM how they want to talk about the cell
technology. Uh, but a lot of that
learning and the research and
development that has gone into that, a
lot of the uh control electronics, all
of that is being reutilized and then
qualified for space. And going back the
other way, the lessons learned that
we're going in this uh like extreme
testing campaign, as you said, negative
200 degrees Celsius to plus 200 degrees
Celsius that is being brought back to
the General Motors vehicles we have here
on Earth. Uh so it's a pretty cool
mutual benefit because uh it is such an
extreme environment because it
necessitates technological advancement.
Those learnings are being brought back
to Earth.
For now, companies like Lunar Outpost
rely on government agencies to fund what
they're doing, which seems precarious.
But what larger things are at stake in
the new space race?
>> Nation state competition is critical for
space. It always has been. Um, and for
good reason. You know when we start
looking at the moon, when we start
looking at the asteroid belt, there are
those near infinite amount of resources
available in space which if we can
access that, that is a fundamental step
change for humanity. Whoever controls
those resources will control the future
of where we go as a species.
>> More on that when we come back.
I I listen to you uh say all that stuff
and it makes me think, gosh, this is
going to be expensive, right? How much
money what's the sticker price on one of
these eagles? Or maybe another way of
asking it is how much money do you need
to make this happen? I mean, not just
become profitable, but to to fund what
your ambitions are.
>> If you're looking at the lunar terrain
vehicle services program, it's an Idiq
contract with NASA. All three vendors
are publicly uh posted pricing. So, you
have one vendor in at 1.69 total. Like,
this is the absolute maximum the
contract can hit. Uh we're at 1.72.
Another vendor is at 1.9
>> $1.72 billion.
>> $1.72 billion. Uh yeah, exactly right.
>> And so it's it's just a uh spread in
terms of who NASA's going to down select
on. NASA's only going to pick one of
these vendors uh to provide services
long term. Now, just to be clear, that's
not the price for one truck. So that's
the price for us to provide services for
a decade on the lunar surface. It could
be multiple vehicles and it could be
many different mission profiles. Uh
realistically the pricing is going to be
lower than that. Uh but just because we
are in a competitive phase, I'm not
going to say exactly how much lower than
that quite yet.
>> Well, I mean I asked because you know
obviously a lot of nostalgia is seeped
into the DNA of this new space race,
right? Ar the Aremis program, the sister
of Apollo uh in in mythology. Uh it
Artemis hasn't gotten the the greatest
start, right? It's super behind
schedule, right? And now there's
concerns about NASA's budget being uh
dramatically cut by the Trump
administration. Where does that where
does that put things in this this race
to the moon?
What's pretty cool about where we're at
and just to look at I would say the
opportunity,
we as a space industry for the first
time have reached a critical mass that
we're moving forward uh regardless of
where the government funding is. Now
that being said, the cy lunar market and
the cis lunar economy absolutely needs
government funding to help us get to
that tipping point. But the broader
space industry is making rapid progress.
That being said, we are huge proponents
of what NASA is doing, not only in the
human space flight and exploration uh
portion of this, but also the science
and exploration piece. So, we are um
looking forward to seeing how the
budgets shake out. Obviously, that
influences our strategy, but I will say
there's a lot of great people uh in the
NASA community and there's a lot of
strong support amongst the public for
NASA. We are sending our lunar terrain
vehicle Eagle to the moon regardless in
2029. So, we are going to be on the
moon. If astronauts are there at the
same time right away in 2029, perfect.
You know, we'll we'll start providing
those services to NASA. If astronauts
are there a year later or two years
later, that's okay as well. We'll start
providing the robotic services to build
out the infrastructure to get the
surface of the moon ready for astronauts
when they arrive so that those habitats
and the launch and landing pads and the
powering comms I was talking about
earlier.
>> I mean, it seems like the friction of
the cold war really helped funding and
interest in going to the moon the first
time.
We are kind of at a point where maybe
we're, you know, it's not quite a cold
war yet, but we are definitely some cold
tensions between some major companies,
major world powers out there. And I I'm
curious, what do you see in the current
geopolitical situation that does that
gives perhaps hope of renewed interest
or a potential to to kind of return to
that space race? I think China, I think
Russia. What's your read on this?
>> Nationstate competition is critical for
space. It always has been. Um, and for
good reason. You know, when we start
looking at the moon, when we start
looking at the asteroid belt, there are
those near infinite amount of resources
available in space, which if we can
access that, that is a fundamental step
change for humanity. Whoever controls
those resources will control the future
of where we go as a species. Now, it is
going to take some time to get there.
So, hearkening back to the national
security and defense side of things, the
moon is a giant satellite in Earth
orbit. Whoever controls that has the
biggest satellite in Earth orbit. So,
think of it as a spacecraft.
nation state competition is certainly
the downside of um or it can be seen as
a downside in terms of how we utilize
space but it is critically important to
drive funding into the space and
aerospace economy. Um if you look at it
from the opposite way the flip side of
the coin uh space is also the ultimate
soft power play. uh if you look at the
Artemis Accords, the nation state
cooperation
uh that's happening, I think we're above
50 countries that are working with the
United States of America.
>> This is the international kind of
essentially like treaties among uh
countries such as the US and and other
uh allies out there.
>> Yeah, exactly. It's it's 50 countries
allied together for common purpose to go
to space and make it sustainable. like
just doing that together uh bolsters our
cooperation internationally to the point
where now it starts uh trickling into
other parts of society and other parts
of the ecosystem. So you start getting
that technological cooperation, you
start getting that political
cooperation, you start getting that
economic cooperation in space, it has
multiplied benefits across each of these
countries that are a part of the Artemis
Accord. So, as I said, over 50 countries
allied with the United States to do
this, which is massive. Um, of course,
you do have Russia and China on the
other side, and realistically, it is
serious competition. China has made a
massive amount of progress in a very
short period of time. Um, they're going
to continue their campaign and they're
pressing hard to get astronauts on the
moon by 2030. So, we are competing with
China. We are competing with Russia. Uh,
and there's a lot at stake, whether it's
resources or whether it's national
security.
>> A big player in getting your moon truck
to the moon is SpaceX's giant spaceship,
Starship,
>> that's currently under development.
We've seen several versions of the ship
explode in recent months, and it's still
very much a work in progress.
>> Can you continue to rely on Musk's
company to get the Eagle to the moon, or
is there a backup? are are basically on
hold as they figure it out.
>> Yeah, I mean, as any good company does,
we have uh alternate paths. So, we're
getting to the moon no matter what in
2029. Um, I love Starship, the vision
behind it. I think it's a really
exciting launch platform that's an order
of magnitude more in capabilities than
we currently have. Uh, what I love about
the space industry though is like we're
no longer um just one path, right?
There's many paths and sometimes they're
competing, sometimes they're working
together, but it's providing all of
these variations uh to a point where
there isn't that uh hey, one thing fails
and then we're all we're all kind of
screwed if one thing fails. SpaceX is
dominant. There's no doubt about it,
right? Like with their Falcon platform,
they are dominant. Uh but you do also
have Blue Origin and Blue Origin,
they're working in the background. you
know, I I think they're getting things
uh in place to be a serious competitor
long term. And then, as I said, you do
have Rocket Lab uh and you do have these
other medium launch and landing uh type
capabilities that are out there that are
viable alternatives. Uh not quite to the
scale of Starship or what Blue Origin's
doing with Blue Moon or their HLS
platform. Uh but there are other
options. I find Blue Origin fascinating
because it feels like a a classic Jeff
Bezos play where uh you know it's the
turtle and the hair but you know never
bet against in this case you know the
turtle the the slow build being really
careful about uh you know each stage of
getting to what comes next. You were at
Remar. I'm just curious, you know,
that's a that's a an Amazon Jeff uh
event. Have have the two of you met?
Have you gotten a chance to talk about
this? What does he think about your
vision?
>> I have met Jeff. Uh I have no idea if he
remembers me or not. I'm I'm sure he
meets many people.
>> How how could he not?
Um he he was a very very cool guy and
you know obviously like talks like an
expert about talks as an expert about
what I was just talking to him about in
a general sense. So you can never
underestimate Jeff. You can never
underestimate Elon. I think the space
industry is very lucky to have two
people that are extraordinarily
competitive that want to succeed that
are competing against each other. I
think there's nation state competition,
but we also have two of the greatest
entrepreneurs of our time that are now
competing against each other in space.
So, what Jeff is doing with Blue, what
Elon's doing with SpaceX, it is going to
be an exciting next decade in space to
watch these two compete. And I think at
the end of the day, us as humanity,
we're going to win.
>> And it's interesting because they have
they have two very different visions,
right? Musk very much wants to go to
Mars. He thinks the moon has been done
essentially. I mean, he's talked about
the moon, but Mars is his priority.
Bezos is about the moon. Do you think
we'll actually see man missions to Mars
in our lifetime?
>> I do. Um when we start looking at the
pace and this is just a kind of base
analysis from my side. when we start
looking at the pace of how quickly not
only we're moving uh at at lunar outpost
but that other companies are moving
SpaceX, Blue Origin, Stoke Space, many
others. How quickly other nations are
now moving, China uh and Russia in
particular, we are seeing a completely
different ecosystem than we saw for the
last 50 years. like we had Apollo uh
then we had you know the Mars
Perseverance Rover and you know a few of
the other Mars rovers and we had the
International Space Station and those
were all great accomplishments but the
pace actually slowed down pretty
drastically in the space industry like
the pace at which we're involving uh the
pace at which we were evolving uh was it
was slower. we have increased that pace
and increased that pace to now an
exponential curve over the course of the
last decade. Uh so if we can continue
that pace, if we can continue to attract
investment as we have and produce
results like so at Lunar Outpost, we've
uh I think our average revenue growth
over the last seven to eight years is
like 2.4x each and every year. And so if
we can keep showing that value to our
customers, to NASA, to the Department of
Defense, to the Australian Space Agency,
ISA, if we can keep growing the
commercial side of the lunar economy,
and adding value back here to Earth, I
do think there is going to be the
funding. I think there's going to be the
vision, and I think there's going to be
the technology that allows us to get to
Mars uh within our lifetimes.
>> Okay. I just got to ask you one really
quick followup, though. Yeah,
>> you're bringing trucks to the moon. Uh,
you know, do we really need car culture
on the moon? Why why couldn't we have a
walkable moon or like moon bicycles?
>> Moon bikes.
>> Oh, man. I
>> moon scooters.
>> What happened to moon urbanism, Justin?
>> Yeah. Jeez. Taking big car to the moon.
>> It is a massive truck. It is 100% a
massive.
>> Are we gonna have cars cars and coffee
in the south pole of the moon?
>> You know what? I've been trying to
convince NASA to let me like have a
radio that you can control with your
hands that pipes in music directly to
the astronaut's helmet, but um I haven't
convinced them yet. So, I I want to have
a radio. I I'd love it if I could hook
up to their life support system. They
can get some coffee, but I don't think
NASA's going to let me do that anytime
soon. Like, you guys got to come out and
drive a space truck. If you're ever out
in Colorado, please let me know because
it is fun. Like, it it's a mix between a
dune buggy and a heavy duty truck. So,
it is actually an absolute blast to
drive. It's enjoyable, really smooth
suspension. Um, but it's also just kind
of a new and novel way uh to traverse on
the moon. So, very much a truck, but it
has like zero point turns. Uh, you can
go over these massive like rocks or
rocks and obstacles. You can go in and
out of like these pretty steep craters.
So, very much a truck, but mixed with
the dune buggy.
>> That's appealing, but I don't I don't
think Tim even has a driver's license.
>> Well, not for the moon. Oh, no. I have I
I have a driver's license. I think we
got to leave it at that. Uh Justin,
thank you. Uh I can't wait to drive this
vehicle on the moon uh and and talk to
you some more.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Tim Mims, thanks for
having me.
>> We reached out to the Chinese embassy in
Washington DC. A spokesperson said the
Chinese government has always adhered to
the idea of using and exploring outer
space for peaceful purposes. We reached
out to the Russian embassy in Washington
DC. They did not respond to a request
for comment. We reached out to Blue
Origin, which declined a comment. We
also reached out to SpaceX, which did
not respond to a request for comment.
Stick around. Tim and I unpack what we
just heard from Justin Cyrus, and talk
about whether we're really in a new
space race.
[Music]
So, Justin Cyrus compares the space
industry to something like the internet
in the 1990s. What do you think he's
getting at there? Well, for one, you've
got the government funding propping up
the whole thing because of course that
was key to building out the original
backbones of the internet,
>> right? The Alore money.
>> That's right. The Al Gore money. Get all
that fiber in the ground. But of course,
what we're doing instead is building
this physical infrastructure uh on the
moon and in, as they like to say, cis
lunar space. So, not a week goes by that
I don't get a pitch about somebody
trying to basically set up literally the
internet but in space 4G on the moon.
But of course, uh you know what Justin
Cyrus and the other folks who are
competing for this NASA gig for a truck
want to build is a physical
infrastructure. Well, you know, one
thing I want to disagree with is I don't
think we're quite to the 1990s yet. Uh
because we don't we're not yet on the
moon, right? But what gives all these
folks so much hope is that they can get
there in a more affordable way, right?
They look at what SpaceX is doing and
they're betting huge on the idea that
that Elon Musk's giant spaceship
Starship is going to work and is going
to make taking giant pieces of
machinery, parts of life that are going
to be needed to on the moon to the moon
in a rather affordable way. So I think
that is one of the big differences on
this kind of bigger dream of the lunar
economy that you know people have
dreamed of going and living on the moon
and outer space for a long time but it's
been super super expensive and the kind
of the vision that Musk and Jeff Bezos
with Blue Origin are kind of putting
forward is uh making accessing outer
space more common more affordable.
>> Yeah. What do you make of this idea that
sooner rather than later there will be a
lunar economy that is self- sustaining
or at least a break even because this is
all government contracts right now. So
Justin's company and the others are all
competing for this NASA contract for a
moon truck, right? The moon truck
doesn't happen without taxpayer money.
What do you make of this claim that this
is going to actually be commercialized?
Yeah, it's a it almost feels like a
chicken or egg sort of situation. Is
there an economy on the moon? Well, not
currently, right? You you hear the
dream, right, that essentially there's
going to be all this mining potential in
Helium 3, which I know is a big uh topic
of fascination for you. Yeah. And don't
forget those those critical minerals.
It's right there in the name. They're
critical,
>> right? I thought it was funny when I
said to Justin, you know, aren't we
going to go to the bottom of the ocean,
dig these up first because of course
deep sea mining is getting big. And it's
a lot easier to go to the bottom of the
ocean, it turns out, than to go to the
moon. And he said, well, we wouldn't
want the environmental destruction. But
now I'm picturing, you know, we all look
up at the moon, its iconic face, the man
in the moon. I mean, are we going to
have giant open pit mines on the moon?
What's it going to take? There's going
to be I guess there won't be a brown
cloud of pollution up there, but we're
ready to start tearing it up, right? You
know, this is like like the the plotline
of uh Expanse, right? Or some of these
science fiction movies where kind of
industry takes us into the outer reaches
for all these kind of messy materials
and and we send people off to get it. In
my own research for this interview, the
experts that I found the most credible
said, "We actually don't know what the
killer app for the space economy or the
lunar economy is yet, and hopefully we
will discover it." So, I guess somewhere
out in space there's a mystery substance
or some chain of events that helps us
leverage
travel within our solar system in a way
that we find economically advantageous.
But I really don't think that we are are
there yet. That said, I do admire the
folks who are trying to get us there
because as much as they are private
companies, they're really taking on the
role of creating an infrastructure that
allows for the same kind of scientific
work and scientific exploration that
NASA has done forever, but now of course
it's being privatized. I guess that's my
last question for you, Tim. What do you
make of the way that NASA has moved
toward
private contractors for what used to be
core functions of what the agency did?
>> Well, that's kind of the the the
vision that Musk has laid out, right?
That uh NASA was too bloated, too
expensive that he wanted to show and get
excitement for going to space with
SpaceX. So, that was kind of the idea,
get people excited about going. So, in a
lot of ways, SpaceX has been hugely
successful, right? There are a whole
bunch of copycats wanting to do the same
thing. Justin mentioned that the moon
is, you know, in terms of nearby space
anyway, it's the ultimate high ground,
which of course is a is a an old term
when you think about taking the high
ground with your archers or your
artillery. Do you think that the moon is
going to get militarized? Is that
inevitable? Well, we've already seen
space in some ways become that way,
right? Uh a natural place for a cold
war. In some ways, it's probably good
for those who are prospet
uh somebody else. That's what helped the
the Apollo missions back in the day
trying to beat the Russians. Um so, in
some ways, having an adversary like that
is good. Uh, I don't think some would
see it as a good thing to be wanting to
find a new place to fight that. Let's
take peace to the moon.
>> It's really too bad. But I want to paint
an alternate picture here. It is
possible to imagine a future in which
space is once again a place where
combatants on either side of a cold war
can collaborate. Right? We saw that uh
at the end of the last cold war with the
US and Russia collaborating on the
international space station with Russia
being the sole way to bring American
astronauts to space for a long time. So
imagine a world in which Sam Alman's
Helon or one of these other fusion
companies actually makes it work. They
need a ready supply of helium 3. The
best place to get it turns out to be the
moon. The US and China collaborate on an
international mission to establish a
moon base so they can send regular
packages of helium 3 back to the earth
and we get that unlimited fusion energy
we were promised. We use it to solve for
and adapt to climate change. There could
be a bright future here. It doesn't have
to just be, you know, moon tanks
shooting at each other while we fight
over the high ground and the dwindling
supply of critical minerals that are
available on the moon.
>> Or
how about this? We just send all the
politicians to the moon
so they can rule us from afar in luxury.
And that's bold names. We're wrapping up
this season, but we'll be back with new
episodes on Fridays starting September
12th. We'll also be posting videos of
our episodes on YouTube starting then.
So, make sure you subscribe to WSJ
Podcasts and follow Bold Names. Our
producer is Ariana Aspiru. We had
additional help this week from Danny
Lewis and Kasha Brousalian. Our fact
checker is Aperna Nan. Michael Lval and
Jessica Fenton are our sound designers.
Jessica also wrote our theme music. Our
supervising producer is Katherine
Milsam. Our development producer is
Aisha Al-Muslim. Scott Saloway and Chris
Sinsley are the deputy editors and Fana
Patterson is the Wall Street Journal's
head of news audio. For even more, check
out our columns on wsj.com.
We've linked them in the show notes. I'm
Tim Higgins
>> and I'm Christopher Mims. Thanks for
listening.